---
title: Chromebook and ERPNext
draft: false
author: Admin
tags:
    - erpnext
image:
      src: /Chromebook-ERPNext.jpg
      alt: ERPNext
snippet: I've been planning to write a Chromebook review for a while, and now is the right time because both Chromebook and ERPNext have become excellent choices for both personal and business use.
publishDate: 2023-03-17 11:39
category:
    - news
---

<p><br></p><p>Before I share my insights on Chromebook, let me first address how Chromebook relates to ERPNext. For me, there are several connections, so let's start from the beginning.</p><p><br></p><h3>One of the connections is the usability that led me to Linux</h3><p><br></p><p>For a long time, I only used Windows, and I must admit that I was never really a fan of it. I started with Windows 3.1 and followed the releases until a friend asked me to help her with her netbook, as she wanted to install something on it, but it wasn't working. That's when I first encountered the SUSE Linux operating system. At first, I struggled with it, but once I let go of the Windows mindset, I grew to love it. It was secure, stable, and fast, although I must admit that this impression was mostly based on feelings rather than actual measurements. After that, I became a Hungarian UHU Linux user, and later on, I tried Ubuntu and its variants, mostly using the graphical interface, occasionally the command line. However, when I needed a media center or my own cloud storage solution, I turned to the Raspberry Pi and VPSs for different tasks. (I just remembered that I was also surprised by Linux when I worked as an intern in an editorial office, but that's another story.) Using Linux after Windows always brought a sense of calm, but there were some challenges. One was dealing with graphics card issues, and the other was managing power consumption on laptops.</p><p><br></p><h3>How did Linux become a Chromebook?</h3><p><br></p><p>When I was looking for a laptop without a cooling fan, completely silent, there weren't many options available. Due to the absence of moving parts, Chromebooks are noiseless, produce less heat, consume less energy, and perhaps more durable as they are also dust-proof. All of these features were exactly what I needed, and since Chromebooks run on Linux, it made it even more appealing. When I compared the performance of Linux running on a Chromebook to my setup at the time, I realized that it wasn't faster, but it met my needs, so I made the switch. And I haven't regretted it since. At that time, interestingly enough, I was already using the Chrome operating system and the limited crosh shell, and I didn't need to install Linux on it, making it even faster.</p><p><br></p><h3>What I didn't know or misunderstood about Chromebooks</h3><p><br></p><p>Everywhere I read that Chromebooks were only suitable for internet browsing. I interpreted this, along with other internet-related information, to mean that it couldn't be used without an internet connection. Despite agreeing with the old saying, "Why have power if there's no internet?" I thought it wouldn't be suitable for everyday use without a constant internet connection. As it turned out, I was mistaken. While Google Drive is integrated, making it easy to access and upload files stored there, it's not limited to just that. It offers offline editing for documents and has a local storage folder where we can store and work on files independent of Drive.</p><p><br></p><p>Google went even further, as now you can run Linux on a Chromebook not only with the hacks mentioned earlier but also through a built-in Linux container, which can be launched with just a click and currently runs Debian 11 by default. And if that's not enough, you can also use apps from the Android world on Chromebooks.</p><p><br></p><p>What's missing? Excel. This may be a bigger issue for some, but it's worth considering if it's truly necessary. In the past, I used Open/Libre Office on Linux machines, and it can still be run on developer Linux machines. Previously, Excel was available for Android, and it worked perfectly on Chromebooks with a wide range of functionalities. I'm not sure about its current status since Microsoft is moving towards the online world, and the Online Excel, similar to Google Sheets, is becoming more capable with each update. But I understand that some may need the full functionality of Excel. In that case, I recommend using a remote desktop client to access a virtual Windows environment, which can be rented, or even used for free in some cases, without the need to buy a more expensive computer or a Windows/Office subscription.</p><p><br></p><h3>Now, let's get to the connection between ERPNext and Chromebook</h3><p><br></p><p>We are currently in a phase of IT development where everything has moved to the cloud, whether it's public or private, and in reality, all we need is a web browser. Unfortunately, there's not much competition in that area, as the Chrome browser reigns supreme. But what can be faster than a computer optimized for a browser? That's the Chromebook, and it perfectly complements ERPNext, a cloud-based application that truly requires only a web browser. There's no need to install anything locally, making them a perfect match.</p><p><br></p><p>The other connection is the cost-effectiveness and value for money. Alongside quality, affordability and value for money are essential to me, and both ERPNext and Chromebook offer excellent pricing.</p><p><br></p><p>I have another interesting story connecting these two: it's related to an ERPNext partner, whose website I frequently read. There, I noticed that they are also Chromebook enthusiasts and recommend using ERPNext and Chromebook together due to usability and cost-effectiveness.</p><p><br></p><p>From previous articles, you can see that I look for open-source solutions that are preferably free and don't charge based on the number of users. Even though I use a Chromebook, I avoid Google services whenever possible. There are alternatives available for everything, such as Nextcloud instead of Drive, etc. While these might not be as deeply integrated, they may be sufficient for certain needs. Also, for those who have no privacy concerns and would rather support other developers with their money, as I do, using the free Google products within their usage limits is an option. And when that's not enough, you can archive data from Drive to Nextcloud, for example.</p><p><br></p><p>Chromebooks also have excellent integration with Android smartphones, allowing for synchronization of browser tabs without any additional software, unlocking the laptop using the phone's fingerprint reader, and sharing notifications, media content, and SMS, etc.</p><p><br></p><p>And finally, my favorite part: security. There are no viruses or malware on Chromebooks. It notifies you when an update is available and quickly installs it. There's no unexpected update that renders the laptop unusable for hours while it installs at the least convenient time. It simply does its job, just like ERPNext.</p><p><br></p><p>The drawback? Officially, Chromebooks are not sold in my country, but you can still find ways to obtain one, even with a warranty.</p>
